CorAL Abstract

1a. Software Acronym: 			CorAL

1b. Short Title: 			Correlation Algorithm Library

2.  Author Name(s) and Affiliations:	David Brown (LLNL, BNL), Scott Pratt (MSU), P Danielewicz (MSU), Michael Heffner (LLNL), Andrew Glenn (?), Ron Soltz (LLNL)

3.  Software Completion Date: 		Incomplete

4.  Brief Description:

	CorAL is a software library designed to aid in the analysis of femtoscopic data.  Femtoscopic data are a class of measured quantities used in heavy-ion collisions to characterize particle emitting source sizes.  The most common type of this data is two-particle correlations induced by the Hanbury-Brown/Twiss (HBT) Effect, but can also include correlations induced by final-state interactions between pairs of emitted particles in a heavy-ion collision.

	Because heavy-ion collisions are complex many particle systems, modeling them is often difficult and accomplished using Boltzmann-inspired transport codes, hydrodynamical models or hybrid techniques.  Using the CRAB module, CorAL can turn the output from these models into something that can be directly compared to experimental data.  

	CorAL can also take the raw experimentally measured correlation functions and image them by inverting the Koonin-Pratt equation to extract the space-time emission profile of the particle emitting source.  This source function can be further analyzed or directly compared to theoretical calculations.

5.  Method of Solution:

	To compute particle emitting sources or correlation functions from theoretical models, CorAL uses Monte Carlo integration.

	To extract source functions directly from experimental data, CorAL first discretizes the source function in one of several basis function representations.  With this in hand, the Koonin-Pratt equation, which is a Fredholm integral equation, becomes a matrix equation.  This matrix equation can be inverted using standard methods of Bayesian inference, producing the source function with experimental uncertainties preserved.

6.  Computer(s) for which software is written:  PC, server

7.  Operating System:				Linux, MacOSX

8.  Programming Language(s) Used:		C++, Python

9.  Software Limitations:			Single node, single process (this code has not been parallelized)

10. Unique Features of this Software:		This is a matter of opinion…

11. Related and Auxiliary Software:		CRAB (the CoRrelation Afterburner), which is superseded by CorAL; any heavy-ion modeling code that outputs particle emission data in the OSCAR format (https://karman.physics.purdue.edu/OSCAR/index.php/Main_Page) can be used to create emission sources in CorAL.

12. Other Programming or Operating Information or Restrictions:

13. Hardware Requirements:			Desktop or server 

14. Time Requirements:				

	To build a correlation function or source function using CRAB can take a few hours on a standard desktop machine.  Imaging a correlation function is much faster, taking at most tens of minutes.

15. Reference:

	DA Brown, P Danielewicz, Phys. Lett. B 398 (3), 252-258

	DA Brown, P Danielewicz, Phys. Rev. C 57 (5), 2474

	D. Brown, M. Heffner, R. Soltz, and P. Danielewicz, S. Pratt, Phys. Rev. C 72, 054902 (2005).
